===========================================================================

Running Open MPI Applications
-----------------------------

Open MPI supports both mpirun and mpiexec (they are exactly
equivalent) to launch MPI applications.  For example:

  shell$ mpirun -np 2 hello_world_mpi
  or
  shell$ mpiexec -np 1 hello_world_mpi : -np 1 hello_world_mpi

are equivalent.  Some of mpiexec's switches (such as -host and -arch)
are not yet functional, although they will not error if you try to use
them.

The rsh launcher (which defaults to using ssh) accepts a -hostfile
parameter (the option "-machinefile" is equivalent); you can specify a
-hostfile parameter indicating an standard mpirun-style hostfile (one
hostname per line):

  shell$ mpirun -hostfile my_hostfile -np 2 hello_world_mpi

If you intend to run more than one process on a node, the hostfile can
use the "slots" attribute.  If "slots" is not specified, a count of 1
is assumed.  For example, using the following hostfile:

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
node1.example.com
node2.example.com
node3.example.com slots=2
node4.example.com slots=4
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

  shell$ mpirun -hostfile my_hostfile -np 8 hello_world_mpi

will launch MPI_COMM_WORLD rank 0 on node1, rank 1 on node2, ranks 2
and 3 on node3, and ranks 4 through 7 on node4.

Other starters, such as the resource manager / batch scheduling
environments, do not require hostfiles (and will ignore the hostfile
if it is supplied).  They will also launch as many processes as slots
have been allocated by the scheduler if no "-np" argument has been
provided.  For example, running a SLURM job with 8 processors:

  shell$ salloc -n 8 mpirun a.out

The above command will reserve 8 processors and run 1 copy of mpirun,
which will, in turn, launch 8 copies of a.out in a single
MPI_COMM_WORLD on the processors that were allocated by SLURM.

Note that the values of component parameters can be changed on the
mpirun / mpiexec command line.  This is explained in the section
below, "The Modular Component Architecture (MCA)".

Open MPI supports oshrun to launch OSHMEM applications. For example:

   shell$ oshrun -np 2 hello_world_oshmem

OSHMEM applications may also be launched directly by resource managers such as
SLURM. For example, when OMPI is configured --with-pmi and --with-slurm one maylaunch OSHMEM applications via srun

   shell$ srun -N 2 hello_world_oshmem


===========================================================================
